pay attention to with the way the flesh
is squatting is the majority of her
movements will carry over with all of
our different squat variations whether
it is a high bar back squat a front
squat a low bar squat or goblet squat
which we're not going to be teaching you
today safety bar squat or any of the
other specialty barbells the fundamental
movements remain the same throughout
stop one key point that I want you guys
to have a look at is the way that we
start with our hip position with our
stance her stance is where she is
comfortable that's going to be different
to each and every one of us some of us
prefer a wide stance some of us have
seen someone on TV doing it with the
wide stance and they did it very well so
we're trying to do that that's not the
right answer okay the correct stance is
the one that's right for you okay so
this stance is what is right for Felicia
according to her bone length her hip
structure and the muscles surrounding
her hip joint what's comfortable for her
the first thing that she does with her
feet okay she points her toes very
slightly outwards not too much
she then focuses on her hip movement
which is externally rotating this bone
here that's called bone that's the
femur okay what are the muscles
responsible for externally rotating this
bone yeah let's keep it simple glutes
okay a lot of people don't know how to
squat with their butt very well all
right and this is one of my favorite
ways of teaching people how to turn your
butt on before you even move okay so she
initiates this movement by externally
rotating her femur nothing fancy about
this and then she's just gonna sit okay
so there's a few ways of articulating
this cue we talked about spreading the
floor you may have heard me say opening
your hips knees out as I just said
externally rotating her female as Edie
Cohen
the greatest power lifter of all time
says open your taint okay
these are all very much the same thing
okay three more reps externally rotates
the femur and sits what we're doing here
is with her stance combined with that
cue of externally rotating her femur is
giving her pelvis room to be able to sit
in that bottom position and remain
neutral
now Felicia is going to demonstrate
what's your first swap variation Loeb
asks what check it out
Felicia starts by grabbing the barbell
as close as her shoulder mobility allows
she's quite tiny with very mobile
shoulders so you'll see that's a very
close position my shoulder mobility
won't allow me to get there therefore I
hold it with a wider grip but I'm still
following the same cue Felicia places
the barbell on the muscles created by
this close hand position creates the
Shelf from the rear deltoids the barbell
will sit on your rear deltoids don't
think about bony landmarks think about
soft tissue when we're resting heavy
metal objects on our body okay if it's
uncomfortable because you feel it's
resting on a bone you're doing it wrong
okay and a very common thing that I hear
from little petite girls I don't have
rear deltoids yes you do
alright and when you use this close grip
okay
the cues are from here elbows back and
shoulder blades down
I can feel even though it's a little bit
smaller than mine there still is a
little muscle here that that barbell can
sit on top of and not bony landmarks
okay so that's the rear deltoids not
below it can you just go below it go
further further feel a very common error
that I see is people seeing that a low
bar squat allows you to lift a heavy
weight so a lower bust what will allow
you to lift an even heavier weight
that's not how it works it needs to sit
on the posterior deltoids okay on the
shelf that we've created if it sits
below that it's going to change all
sorts of things it's going to push out
torso forward too far
and if you're training for a
powerlifting competition which isn't
entirely what today's about but if you
are training for powerlifting
competition the ref just won't let you
do that so it's not allowed to have the
bar lower than Reidel so it's in
competition and that's how we teach it
okay
Felicia grabs the bar and holds it as
close as her shoulder mobility allows
coming under the barbell she's going to
place it on the shelf created by a rear
deltoids pulling her elbows back and
shoulder blades down she's going to look
straight ahead and unrack that weight
walking back standing in her preferred
stance which is what's comfortable for
her toes pointed very slightly outwards
not too much she's going through before
she even moves externally rotates that
female focusing on spreading the floor
pushing the knees out opening her hips
three ways of saying the same thing
looking straight ahead throughout the
entire movement she squats as deep as
her mobility allows which just so
happens to be an ass to grass squat okay
but her focus isn't on squatting ass the
grass is to squatter's blows her
mobility allows while still maintaining
a neutral pelvis angle and therefore a
neutral spine and rock Felicia comes up
to the bar grabs the bars close to
shoulder mobility allows we're going to
do a high bar squat now the same hand
position it's the same cue some people
need more mobility to achieve the low
bar position in the shoulders but
someone like Felicia same hand position
okay coming under the bar she places the
barbell on her upper trapezius once
again we're resting heavy barbells on
soft tissue not bony landmarks okay a
common error that I see in fact the very
popular famous person arnold
schwarzenegger go and have a look at
pictures of him in his bodybuilding days
and you'll see his c7 which is his last
cervical vertebra is freaking swollen
okay and I'm of the belief that's from
resting heavy barbells on his cervical
vertebra where she comes under the bar
placing the barbell on her upper
trapezius pulling the elbows back and
shoulder blades down same cues whether
- hi Barolo bar okay so that's
retraction and depression of the scapula
so that we can engage all of the right
muscles of her upper back to increase
the rigidity of her torso and stabilize
her spine throughout the entire movement
elbows back shoulder blades down looking
straight ahead she's going to unwrap
that weight three steps in her desired
stance we'll talk about the steps later
if it's four it's all good looking
straight ahead she's going to before she
moves externally rotate that femur
initiating the movement by spreading the
floor pushing your knees out in the same
direction as her toes opening our hips
or opening her taint all there's four
different ways of saying the same thing
squats as deep as her mobility allows
which means as deep as she can go while
still maintaining a neutral pelvis angle
and therefore a neutral spine let's move
on to the front squat so with the
comparison of front squat to back squat
she's not able to manipulate her grip
and elbow position to increase the
tension in her upper back which is a big
weakness compared to the back squats
when we look at the front squat okay so
she's going to place the bar behind the
shelf created by her anterior deltoids
okay so that's right here it doesn't sit
on the belly of the deltoids I'm gonna
elaborate that in a sec okay looking
straight ahead she's going to lift her
elbows up three steps Falls okay
standing in her desired stance which is
toes pointed very slightly outwards
typically a front squat doesn't need for
the stance to be as wide because it's a
less hip dominant movement it's more of
a quad dominant movement so she doesn't
need to create more room for the hips to
be able to sit in that bottom position
because there's not as much hip joint
extension or sorry hip joint flexion
okay it's a quad dominant not a butt
dominant okay looking straight ahead
takes a big breath lowers that weight
under control to her full depth
maintaining neutral posture throughout
the
movement and controls that weight
straight back up again to the start
position if you don't have the mobility
to perform any of these squat variations
I've got some good news for you you
don't have to do it okay
I love the squad all right and if you
can perform all three I'm gonna
recommend that but if you can't and you
can only perform one of those squat
variations let's do that if you can't
perform any of those don't break your
body just because bass like squatting